Contact
saahir.vazirani@gmail.com

Saahir Vazirani

www.linkedin.com/in/saahirvazirani-5850a9297 (LinkedIn)

Student @ Saint Joseph High School | NJ Scholars ‘25 | Trusted
Researcher @ Ballotpedia
South Amboy, New Jersey, United States

Top Skills

Summary

AI Governance
Spanish
English to Spanish

Certifications
Future of AI Course
Certificate for Spanish - ACTFL
Assessment of Performance Toward
Proficiency In Languages
AI Safety Fundamentals: Alignment
Introduction to Java (Latte)

Hi, I’m Saahir - a high school student who
is interested in policy, AI Safety, AI Governance, and civic
engagement.
I aspire to build and regulate human-centric AI to uplift humanity
rather than disrupt it.
Feel free to reach out to me at
vaziranisaahir@gmail.com

Heartsaver CPR & AED

Honors-Awards

Experience

Outstanding Bill Award

Encode

International Research Olympiad
Semifinalist

1 year 1 month

Conference on National Affairs
Delegate
Succesful Legislation
Best of School - International Bebras
Challenge

High School Education Working Group
July 2025 - Present (2 months)

Encode HS AI Action Council
April 2025 - Present (5 months)

-Selected as one of 20 high school students nationwide to serve on Encode
Justice’s inaugural HS AI Action Council, a youth-led initiative focused on
responsible AI advocacy and student empowerment.
-Collaborate monthly with a national cohort of student leaders to shape youth
engagement strategies around AI policy, ethics, and education.
-Lead and support impact-driven projects that advance AI literacy, civic
awareness, and ethical technology use in local and national communities.
-Provide input on internal Encode campaigns, initiatives, and partnerships,
helping center youth voice at the forefront of AI activism.

Page 1 of 8

-Receive mentorship, exclusive professional opportunities, and letters of
recommendation from Encode’s national leadership and partners.
-Serve as a bridge between local efforts and national Encode strategy,
ensuring smooth communication and aligned execution.

Director of Advocacy - New Jersey State Chapter
August 2024 - Present (1 year 1 month)

- Leads all advocacy directives for the New Jersey Encode Justice Chapter
- Lobbies for Policy team's proposals by meeting with legislators statewide.
- Hosts community events/town halls, and oversees phone banking/text
banking/email banking.

Ballotpedia
1 year 1 month

Fellows Program Assistant (Summer 2025 Cohort)
July 2025 - Present (2 months)

Summer 2025 Fellowship (7/14 - 9/12)
- Assists in the management of Ballotpedia's largest volunteer fellowship to
date (over 250+ Fellows).
- Reviews training research from fellows using an answer key, indicating
incorrect attributes from research test sets.
- Replies to messages from Fellows on Slack regarding the Fellowship and
performing data attribute research.

Trusted Researcher

August 2024 - Present (1 year 1 month)
- Assists the Volunteer Program Manager in supporting the Ballotpedia Fellows
Program by reviewing research training sets and interacting with the current
Fellows cohort by answering questions via Slack, a business messaging
application.
- Conducts quality assurance by reviewing candidate attributes that volunteers
previously found to ensure accuracy in Ballotpedia’s data.
- Performs local candidate research (social media accounts, campaign
websites, etc.)

Fellows Program Assistant (Spring 2025 Cohort)
February 2025 - April 2025 (3 months)
Spring 2025 Fellowship (2/3 - 4/4)
- Assists in the management of Ballotpedia's largest volunteer fellowship to
date (over 160+ Fellows).
Page 2 of 8

- Reviews training research from fellows using an answer key, indicating
incorrect attributes from research test sets.
- Replies to messages from Fellows on Slack regarding the Fellowship and
performing data attribute research.

Fellows Program Assistant (Fall 2024 Cohort)
August 2024 - November 2024 (4 months)
Fall 2024 Fellowship (9/3 - 11/1)
- Assists in the management of Ballotpedia's largest volunteer fellowship to
date (over 150+ Fellows).
- Reviews training research from fellows using an answer key, indicating
incorrect attributes from research test sets.
- Replies to messages from Fellows on Slack regarding the Fellowship and
performing data attribute research.

Leaders Across the World
1 year

Co-Executive Director

July 2025 - Present (2 months)

Director of Civic Engagement

September 2024 - Present (1 year)

YMCA Youth and Government
3 years

New Jersey YMCA Youth and Government Lieutenant Governor
April 2025 - Present (5 months)

-Elected as Lieutenant Governor for New Jersey’s Youth and Government
program, a civic education initiative engaging over 500 high school students in
simulated legislative processes and youth leadership.
-Collaborate directly with the Governor and YMCA leadership to manage a
statewide officer corps of 21 student leaders.
-Provide mentorship, logistical support, and strategic leadership to ensure
meaningful student participation and smooth conference operations.
-Promote youth civic engagement and model ethical, informed leadership in all
interactions with delegates and staff.

New Jersey Youth and Government State Officer
Page 3 of 8

April 2024 - April 2025 (1 year 1 month)
- Elected from 75 peers as one out of three officers
- Assists in overseeing debate procedure and running the conference
- Plans the annual conference (~450 delegates) with fellow officers (~20)
- Works in sub-committees to publish content
- Launched AIR (Artificial Intelligence and Internet Responsibility) Campaign
with NJYAG
- Within the Outreach Subcommittee, successfully invited and incentivized
multiple organizations to table at our annual Civic Engagement Fair

New Jersey Youth and Government Delegate
September 2022 - April 2024 (1 year 8 months)

- Participates in a civics and bill writing civic engagement program for high
schoolers
- Debates bills with fellow student delegates using parliamentary procedure
- Attends an annual conference with delegates from the entire state of New
Jersey

Perrin Research Institution
Research Associate

March 2025 - Present (6 months)
- Selected as 1 of only 30 global candidates (out of 3,500+ applicants) to join a
high-impact research cohort.
- Conducting original policy research for federal agencies, foreign ministries,
and global institutions.
- Work featured in forums such as the UN General Assembly and the AI Safety
Summit in Geneva.
- Focused on producing data-backed insights that inform real-world
governance and innovation.

Tributary
Founding Member

January 2025 - Present (8 months)

Purdue University
Volunteer Research Assistant at GRAIL
October 2024 - Present (11 months)

Congressman Frank Pallone Jr
Congressman Pallone's Youth Advisory Council Member
December 2024 - July 2025 (8 months)

Page 4 of 8

- Selected to represent and advocate for a district of over 170,000 students
- Wrote a legislative agenda within the education committee

American Legion Jersey Boys State
Delegate (Nationalist Party)
June 2025 - June 2025 (1 month)

-- Member of the Nationalist Party in a week-long leadership and government
simulation
-- Participated in career-oriented lectures and learned about state-level
democratic processes
-- Acted as a citizen in a hypothetical 51st state, running for various
governmental and partisan positions
-- Ran for Mayor and finished as runner-up by just two votes in Harrison City
-- Elected as one of five Assemblymen, representing my county
-- Designed and debated legislation that once passed, would be read by
Governor Phil Murphy
-- Appointed Director of Public Welfare; authored and presented a public policy
report
-- Appointed Chair of the Technology Committee in Assembly; led digital
initiatives and technology planning

Legisiv
Chief Executive Officer

August 2024 - June 2025 (11 months)
- Developed an AI-driven chatbot: Built a conversational AI tool that simplifies
complex legislation for users.
- Launched an educational website: Used Next.js, Framer Motion, and Tailwind
CSS to create a dynamic platform that teaches people about the legislative
process.
- Integrated AI with policy tools: Combined artificial intelligence with policy
frameworks to enhance decision-making and public understanding.
- Created an accessible learning platform: Designed a user-friendly interface
that guides users through the steps of how laws are written and implemented.
- Automated legislative insights: Developed tools that automatically analyze
and explain the impact of new policies, making them easier to understand.

Monmouth County Democrats
Political Campaign Intern | 6-Week Internship
July 2024 - August 2024 (2 months)
Tinton Falls, New Jersey, United States

Page 5 of 8

During my 6-week internship, I made impactful contributions to the Monmouth
County Democrats’ campaign efforts:
Campaign Contributions:
- Designed 15+ Canva posts to support social media strategies.
- Managed 230+ cold calls, coordinating efforts with 10 volunteers.
- Logged 20+ voter contacts, ensuring accurate data for voter outreach.
- Assisted in the development of the MCD Turf Tracker, an essential tool
tracking regions and towns with Google Sheets
formulas integrated with Votebuilder.
- Created 25+ content ideas for TikTok and edited 2 TikToks to enhance digital
engagement.
- Logged 15+ contacts into a finance sheet
- Created a LinkTree for streamlined access to campaign resources.
- Drafted an Endorsement + Points template for a local politician to secure
endorsements effectively.
- Represented the organization by tabling at the Monmouth County Fair
Skills & Tools:
- Voter Engagement: Utilized phone banking and canvassing to reach voters
effectively.
- Software Proficiency: Gained expertise in Google Sheets, Open Virtual
Phonebank, Constant Contact, and more.
- Creative Contributions: Assisted with social media, communications, and
graphic design tasks using tools like Canva, Photoshop, and Premiere Pro.
- Event Support: Played a key role in events promoting local democratic
candidates, contributing to their success.
- Administrative Tasks: Supported office operations by managing calls,
greeting constituents, and assisting with various staff projects.

Headstarter AI
Software Engineering Fellow

July 2024 - August 2024 (2 months)

buildspace
Builder - Nights and Weekends S5
June 2024 - July 2024 (2 months)

- Created an AI-based policy application over the course of 6 weeks
Page 6 of 8

- Submitted weekly updates with my progress
- Documented my progress on Instagram
- Part of the 7.4% that graduated from s5 of nights and weekends
https://www.instagram.com/legisease?
igsh=aTl1czZvdWRzaWxz&utm_source=qr

YMCA Blue Ridge Assembly
Conference On National Affairs Delegate

June 2024 - July 2024 (2 months)
Black Mountain, North Carolina, United States
- Selected as 1 of 26 delegates to attend the Conference On National Affairs
held in North Carolina, representing the State of New Jersey
- Created a proposal that addresses the national issue of cybercrime through
implementing Zero Trust Architecture
- Collaborated with over 550 other delegates from across the country to identify
and address critical issues within our nation

Congressman Frank Pallone Jr
8 months

Technology Committee Member

February 2024 - July 2024 (6 months)
- Write a policy memo about technology-based policy to assist with the creation
of a legislative agenda
- Assist in the creation of a legislative agenda to inform Congressman Pallone
of technology-related concerns and solutions

Congressman Pallone's Youth Advisory Council Member
December 2023 - July 2024 (8 months)

- Selected to represent and advocate for a district of over 170,000 students

Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Attendee (MIT Blueprint)
March 2024 - March 2024 (1 month)
Cambridge, Massachusetts, United States
MIT Blueprint 2024 (Learnathon)
- Attended MIT's Blueprint 2024, a weekend-long learnathon and hackathon for
high school students hosted at MIT
- Participated in the Advanced Web Development Track
- Learned the fundamentals of Javascript, React.js, node.js, git, MongoDB
Page 7 of 8

MIT Blueprint 2024 (Hackathon)
- In a team of 4 people, we created VerbalVilla, a web app designed to
optimize the language learning process
- I created the frontend utilizing HTML with Bootstrap, CSS, and Javascript
with jQuery

YMCA of the USA (National Resource Office)
New Jersey Youth Advocate
November 2023 - February 2024 (4 months)

- One of two Youth Advocates chosen in the state of New Jersey
- Participated in 4 training sessions and worked with the New Jersey YMCA
State Alliance to develop an advocacy plan
- Lobbied U.S. Congressional Offices to promote policy aimed toward disease
health, childcare, rural education, non-profit funding, and housing infrastructure
https://www.instagram.com/youthadvocatesaahir/

Education
Saint Joseph High School- Metuchen, NJ
· (August 2022 - May 2026)

Rider University
American Legion New Jersey Boys State · (June 2025 - August 2025)

The Lawrenceville School
New Jersey Scholars · (June 2025 - August 2025)

AI Safety Fundamentals
· (October 2024 - February 2025)

Saint Joseph High School- Metuchen, NJ
· (July 2023 - July 2023)

Page 8 of 8

